README.md, before:

# Get DevOps Metrics from GitHub project issues and releases

[![CodeQL](https://github.com/stenjo/devops-metrics-action/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/stenjo/devops-metrics-action/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml) [![units-test](https://github.com/stenjo/devops-metrics-action/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/stenjo/devops-metrics-action/actions/workflows/test.yml) ![Coverage Badge](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/stenjo/9ce1ad7d8e9db99796e782b244eefa4a/raw/devops_metrics__main.json)

This GitHub Action will calculate a set of DevOps Research and Assessment (DORA) metrics based on status and dates from commits and issues.

![badge](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/stenjo/ebb0efc5ab5afb32eae4d0cdc60d563a/raw/deploy-rate.json) ![badge](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/stenjo/ebb0efc5ab5afb32eae4d0cdc60d563a/raw/lead-time.json) ![badge](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/stenjo/ebb0efc5ab5afb32eae4d0cdc60d563a/raw/change-failure-rate.json) ![badge](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/stenjo/ebb0efc5ab5afb32eae4d0cdc60d563a/raw/mean-time-to-restore.json)

## Inputs

### `repo`

Repository from where to read issues and statuses. List one or more repositories, either as one single string, as an array or all separated by newlines.
Valid formats are:

```yaml
repo: my-repo
```

```yaml
repo: [my-repo, my-other-repo]
```

```yaml
repo: 
    my-repo
    my-other-repo
```

Default repo value is repo where action is installed if no repos are spefied.

### `owner`

Owner of the repository. Default is current repository owner or organisation. Only one is handled.

### `token`

Access token for the repository.

### `logging`

Set to true to make event logs of metrics source avaiable.

## Outputs

### `deploy-frequency`

Rate of deploys (tagged releases) per week.
Decimal number. Elite performing teams has 7 as target (daily- or on-demand release)

`deploy-frequency-log` - a list of releases forming the basis for the metric, if `logging` is enabled.

### `lead-time`

Time from issue is set to status doing until linked pull-requestis merged to main branch.
Number in days (Integer)

`lead-time-log` - a list of pull requests with matching first commit and re forming the basis for the metric, if `logging` is enabled.

### `change-failure-rate`

Number of registered issues tagged as bugs divided by number of release tags last month.
By counting the bugs (github issues tagged as `bug`) between releases the last month and average this, we get the failures over releases rate.
Number in range 0 - 100 (%)

### `mttr`

Mean time to restore. This metric is calculated based on the time between the last release before an issue tagged as a bug and the first release after the bug is closed.
For this to work correctly we must assume github issues are created for all unwanted issues in production and that all changes to production is done through releases.
Number in hours (integer)

## Usage

Simplest possible use of this action is something like this:

```yaml
name: Calculate DevOps Metrics

on: 
  schedule:
  - cron: '30 0 * * *'

jobs:
  update-metrics:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    name: Checking the dora metrics
    steps:
      - name: DevOps Metrics from GitHub
        uses: stenjo/devops-metrics-action@v1
        id: dora
        with:
          token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

This will base calculations on the repo where the workflow is installed and run 12:30 AM every day.
To access the outputs anywhere in the workflow, refer to the output of the calculation step via variable format `${{ steps.dora.outputs.deploy-rate }}`. Something like:

```yaml
      - name: Get the output rate
        run: echo "The deploy rate was ${{ steps.dora.outputs.deploy-rate }}"      # Use the output from the `dora` step
```

More complex examples may be found in [.github/workflows/badges.yaml](https://github.com/stenjo/devops-metrics-action/blob/main/.github/workflows/badges.yaml) and [.github/workflows/dora.yaml](https://github.com/stenjo/devops-metrics-action/blob/main/.github/workflows/dora.yaml)

Badges at the top of this file is generated throug the badges.yaml workflow. More on this in [Create badges for metrics output](badges.md)

Commit message:

feat(lead time): add option to count only feat and fix issues (#248)
* feat(lead time): add option to count only feat and fix issues

* updated README

* fixed jest.config

* updated test

* added testing of filtered

* removed old jest file

* fix

* cleaned up and added line in log

* added fixed decimals

README.md, after:

# Get DevOps Metrics from GitHub project issues and releases

[![CodeQL](https://github.com/stenjo/devops-metrics-action/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/stenjo/devops-metrics-action/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml) [![units-test](https://github.com/stenjo/devops-metrics-action/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/stenjo/devops-metrics-action/actions/workflows/test.yml) ![Coverage Badge](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/stenjo/9ce1ad7d8e9db99796e782b244eefa4a/raw/devops_metrics__main.json)

This GitHub Action will calculate a set of DevOps Research and Assessment (DORA) metrics based on status and dates from commits and issues.

![badge](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/stenjo/ebb0efc5ab5afb32eae4d0cdc60d563a/raw/deploy-rate.json) ![badge](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/stenjo/ebb0efc5ab5afb32eae4d0cdc60d563a/raw/lead-time.json) ![badge](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/stenjo/ebb0efc5ab5afb32eae4d0cdc60d563a/raw/change-failure-rate.json) ![badge](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/stenjo/ebb0efc5ab5afb32eae4d0cdc60d563a/raw/mean-time-to-restore.json)

## Inputs

### `repo`

Repository from where to read issues and statuses. List one or more repositories, either as one single string, as an array or all separated by newlines.
Valid formats are:

```yaml
repo: my-repo
```

```yaml
repo: [my-repo, my-other-repo]
```

```yaml
repo: 
    my-repo
    my-other-repo
```

Default repo value is repo where action is installed if no repos are spefied.

### `owner`

Owner of the repository. Default is current repository owner or organisation. Only one is handled.

### `token`

Access token for the repository.

### `logging`

Set to true to make event logs of metrics source avaiable.

### `filtered`

Set to true to filter pulls to only include feat and fix as basis for the lead time metric

## Outputs

### `deploy-frequency`

Rate of deploys (tagged releases) per week.
Decimal number. Elite performing teams has 7 as target (daily- or on-demand release)

`deploy-frequency-log` - a list of releases forming the basis for the metric, if `logging` is enabled.

### `lead-time`

Time from issue is set to status doing until linked pull-requestis merged to main branch.
Number in days (Integer)

`lead-time-log` - a list of pull requests with matching first commit and re forming the basis for the metric, if `logging` is enabled.

### `change-failure-rate`

Number of registered issues tagged as bugs divided by number of release tags last month.
By counting the bugs (github issues tagged as `bug`) between releases the last month and average this, we get the failures over releases rate.
Number in range 0 - 100 (%)

### `mttr`

Mean time to restore. This metric is calculated based on the time between the last release before an issue tagged as a bug and the first release after the bug is closed.
For this to work correctly we must assume github issues are created for all unwanted issues in production and that all changes to production is done through releases.
Number in hours (integer)

## Usage

Simplest possible use of this action is something like this:

```yaml
name: Calculate DevOps Metrics

on: 
  schedule:
  - cron: '30 0 * * *'

jobs:
  update-metrics:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    name: Checking the dora metrics
    steps:
      - name: DevOps Metrics from GitHub
        uses: stenjo/devops-metrics-action@v1
        id: dora
        with:
          token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

This will base calculations on the repo where the workflow is installed and run 12:30 AM every day.
To access the outputs anywhere in the workflow, refer to the output of the calculation step via variable format `${{ steps.dora.outputs.deploy-rate }}`. Something like:

```yaml
      - name: Get the output rate
        run: echo "The deploy rate was ${{ steps.dora.outputs.deploy-rate }}"      # Use the output from the `dora` step
```

More complex examples may be found in [.github/workflows/badges.yaml](https://github.com/stenjo/devops-metrics-action/blob/main/.github/workflows/badges.yaml) and [.github/workflows/dora.yaml](https://github.com/stenjo/devops-metrics-action/blob/main/.github/workflows/dora.yaml)

Badges at the top of this file is generated through the badges.yaml workflow. More on this in [Create badges for metrics output](badges.md)
